at that time Wyoming was full of
dinosaurs
most were the lumbering plant eaters
like Diplodocus and the armored
Stegosaurus
far less common were the carnivores but
this hasn't stopped them becoming
infamous like the Allosaurus these
fearsome predators were the t-rex of
their day and owl was one of them
but like every living thing these
monsters started off small and delicate
despite this science can still tell us
something about how owl probably started
life
we're very familiar with how life begins
for humans but you might be surprised to
learn how a Jurassic carnivore raises
its baby
evidence for this comes from remarkable
fossils found on the Atlantic coast of
Portugal
was in this place that we found in 1993
a small eggshell like this that to
figure out there was my dinosaur further
years we've dug it and we found more
than 100 eggs that makes one of the
biggest nests in the world but more
significantly they found something which
could tell them who these eggs belonged
to the most rare and sought-after
fossils of all tiny preserved bones of
baby dinosaurs still curled up inside
their shell who have found more than 200
embryonic bones
with them we can say exactly which kind
of dinosaur we have in this case it's a
meat-eater dinosaur a carnivore and we
have almost all skeleton here and if
there were eggs there must have been a
nest bizarrely there is information
about this in the fossilized egg shells
themselves
under the microscope scientists can
identify holes in the shell their large
size allows maximum air for the embryo
to breathe which tells them that these
eggs were buried packed together in an
underground nest scientists know this
because there are animals alive today
that do the same thing the crocodiles
this is not surprising because
crocodiles and alligators are one of the
dinosaurs closest living relatives and
with scaly skin and a mouth full of
teeth it's easy to see the family
resemblance